# Telemedical-Analysis
Here we vow to analyze datasets related to diseases and study and predict the outcomes of it using different ML models. This would ensure we understand the accuracy of our choice of the model(s) we implement to visualize the data.
The idea of remaining healthy and fit plays a significant part in human life. It’s one of the main factors that lead to a happy life. But in today’s world getting prone to diseases is quite common due to various factors like an increase in the stress level in our day-to-day life, not getting enough sleep, not maintaining a proper diet, and many other indirect factors. But it is observed that people tend to neglect these diseases or symptoms or don’t bother about them because of their busy schedules. In several cases, this negligence leads to more severe. So treating every disease is very important.
Considering today’s fast-growing life, the need for such types of projects is much more than anything else because we humans tend to care a lot less about our health which in some ways or the other return to haunt us in our lives. Besides these, the medical infrastructure in most places is not fully developed or absent. For example, people in rural areas often don’t get proper medical facilities or have any knowledge about what disease they are affected by. Another chunk of our society consists of people (in the age group of 60+) considered senior citizens. For them, this is no more than a lifeline. Getting every minute details about a disease along with the associated treatments just by inputting the details of symptoms from their home, along with the additional facilities of consulting doctors, and getting medicines with just a few steps is helpful and time-saving.
In today’s world getting affected by diseases is very common due to the vastly increased rate of climate change and also many other factors like our lifestyle, habits, stress, work pressure, etc. But with the constant developments in the medical field, the various treatments for these diseases have reached the next levels. But we have observed through a survey that sometimes it becomes really difficult for some people to reach a doctor for some minor diseases like cold, common fever, stomach pain, etc. Model designing has the main motive of making the world work easier. Building telemedical systems is what we intend to do.  We have tried to analyse models which would give the accurate prediction of heart disease, which is very much helpful in treating cardiovascular health issues. Optimal and efficient machine learning problems have been approached to predict the outcome of proper diagnosis. We have tried to use certain known datasets, which have multiple feature related to patients, which can be extracted to predict the performance of the system. Data redundancy, feature selection, cleansing of data have been performed to perform higher to higher data accuracy. Supervised Machine Learning models like Logistic Regression, and Random Forest Algorithms have been approached to train the heart disease models. The proposed system has obtained an accuracy upto 91% using Logistic Regression and 94.2% using Random Forest Algorithm respectively. This result and the corresponding analysis of the various features with respect to each and every patient, shows the system is much more effective and well accurate in predicting the state of the disease.
